OPENING: The meeting opened at 12.05pm with a reading from 2 Cor 4:1-6, followed by prayer.

PRESENT: There were 19 people present.

APOLOGIES: Apologies were received from Margaret Sanders and Sandra Mattison.
It was agreed that the apologies be sustained.	Carried

MINUTES: The minutes from the congregational meeting held on 23rd October 2016 were read. It was agreed that they be confirmed.	Carried

PARTICULAR BUSINESS
PROPOSAL TO CHANGE SEATING ARRANGEMENTS
1. Rev Barry Oakes reported on the proposal put to the Board of Management to move the seating to face the south wall in a semi-circular arrangement. The Board have initially discussed the proposal but wanted to involve the whole congregation in the process.

2. Rev Oakes outlined the four main reasons for considering a change to the layout:
a) to make the church more welcoming, less formal, and to better express our Biblical togetherness
b) to shorten the distance from the preacher to the last pew so as to bring people closer together
c) to increase effective seating capacity even though we don't need it immediately
and
d) to reinforce that the re-plant is a new beginning for the parish, and to reflect that fact in the physical layout.
Rev Oakes acknowledged that there had been a lot of discussion already, and showed two possible layouts on the projector screen: one he prepared and a second from Les Oliver. He also acknowledged that any change could be unsettling, even threatening, but that it was important to grasp the purpose of this change was to enhance the spread of the Gospel, to see more people won into the Kingdom of God.

It was agreed that the report be received.	Carried

The meeting was opened up for comments. Extensive open discussion took place considering various aspects of the possible change. 
a) Initially we would experiment with changes temporarily but avoid making major structural modifications (eg. remove carpet, remove platform) – we would ensure that if a change did not “work” that we could restore our present set-up.
b) We would need to ensure that any changes were clear cut and not confusing.
c) Minimum changes required would include:
		(i) at least a temporary projector screen on the south wall, and therefore 
		(ii) new blinds for the south windows, plus 
		(iii) borrowing the PYV sound system which would only be available after 5th February
d) Most of the people joining the congregation for the re-plant are skilled musicians (Mook, Ashley, Oakes family and others) so we could expand the musical accompaniment significantly.
e) Placement of musicians and speakers was important for avoiding feedback; musicians need to be at the front, somewhere near the podium to give a lead to the singing.
f) A temporary podium may not be necessary but could be borrowed.
g) If none of the experiments “work” we could revert to the present set-up and encourage people to sit forward rather than towards the rear, or to change their regular seats.
h) If we don't lift the carpet in the centre aisle, we will need to take care with placement of the pews. 
i) Positioning of other items is less critical eg communion table (east side of podium).
j) If we are happy with a modified set-up, then permanent changes could be carried out: removing the platform, relaying carpet, relocating the projector and screen, installing cabling for a control desk, musicians etc.
Summary of Actions:
a) The proposal by Les Oliver was a better layout to begin experimenting with.
b) New blinds removing more glare could be arranged and fitted without much delay.
c) Temporary projector screen could be brought in from the hall.
d) The projector could be dismounted from its fixture and re-cabled into position on a stand (as we had it originally).
e) The PYV sound gear can be borrowed and installed after Feb 5th, and further technical advice on speaker placement, control desk placement etc could be obtained then.

Motions
1. It was agreed to: 
a) approve the installation of blinds to all the south windows
b) begin experiments with seating from February 12th and therefore
c) to conduct a midweek working bee after 5th February to move seats and install the temporary projector screen.
Moved by Gaye McKenzie, seconded Tim Angelico	Carried


CLOSE: The meeting closed at 1.05 pm with prayer.
