README.md, before:

Abstract
========

Ashburton Presbyterian Church is proposing a change and a replant. This document
sets down the goals of the changes and how the proposal achieves them.

Church mission
==============

Before any proposal can be entertained, the church's own purpose must be defined.
Proposals which support this purpose are inherently better than those which do not.

Salvation of the unsaved
------------------------

It hardly needs to be said, but the goal of a church is people. As it's difficult
to reach out to people who have been offended by our form and structure, we must
aim to minimize such offense.

Education and sanctification
----------------------------

Church is not a "feel-good club" for people who are already perfect. It is a place
where the Word of God is expounded and taught, where truth is shared and explained,
and where flawed sinners learn more about the Perfect One. Any change that disrupts
this is bad and dangerous.

Stability and strength
----------------------

[Psalm 40:2](http://sikorsky.rosuav.com:8082/Psalm%2B40.html) is used as the church
motto - giving God's people a "firm place to stand". Our doctrine must be stable and
dependable.

Goals
=====

Reduced formality
-----------------

The church needs to welcome visitors and new members. Random persons walking into
the church should not be turned away by insignificant details of seating layout.

Bring speaker and listeners closer
----------------------------------

The "them and us" feeling is stronger when the distance is great. By reducing the
(perceived) distance, we help people to feel that they are a part of the service,
rather than passive recipients of someone else's lecture.

Increase seating capacity
-------------------------

The present arrangement seats a bit over a hundred people. If the church is blessed
with a significant increase in membership, we will need additional seating space.
Also, drastically _reducing_ seating capacity will strangle the church's growth.

Demonstrating change
--------------------

We are engaging in a church replant, and need to reinforce that this is a new
beginning. People who walk into the church for the first time must instantly know
that we have changed things.

Justification
=============

Removing barriers to entry makes the church less offensive in ways that don't matter.
We should always strive to offend people with substance, not form. (Gal 5:11)

Known objections
================

Change for change's sake
------------------------

    "Dr Bumby says 'change' is constructive - that 'different' is good."
    "'Different' denotes neither bad nor good; it certainly denotes 'not the same'."

Merely changing things is not inherently good. Stability has benefits. Any change
must justify itself with more than marginal improvement, as it must overcome the
costs of _making_ the change.

There is a well-known saying that ["status quo wins a stalemate"]
(http://www.curiousefficiency.org/posts/2011/02/status-quo-wins-stalemate.html).
The explanation here is aimed primarily at language design, but the concept is
more general; change is disruptive and impactful, and almost always in a bad way.
Unless it can be demonstrated that "change for change's sake" is, in this case,
a good thing, the changes [MUST](https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2119.txt) be justified
by something stronger.

Vague goals
-----------

Some of the goals listed above are fuzzy and hard to pin down. For instance, making
the church more welcoming (or, conversely, the reduction of the sense of "them and
us") is hard to prove based on a seating plan alone. These will need to be tested in
a way which gives coherent data.

Falsifiability (testability)
----------------------------

Related to the above is the essentiality of being able to prove or disprove a test.
There is no point performing an experiment if it cannot give concrete results, and
that means knowing *in advance* what the test will be measured against. With the
non-trivial criteria, this means pinning down some measurable result which will be
taken as an indication of a hard-to-measure goal.

Lack of connection with church mission
--------------------------------------

Nothing in a seating plan has any direct impact on the church mission as listed
above, so the justifications must demonstrate indirect impact.

Core change vs trappings
------------------------

In the meeting on Jan 15th, Barry specifically stated:

    We are NOT just tacking onto what's here; we are making something completely new.

"Completely new" can be best achieved by throwing out everything we have. This means
throwing out what's good as well as what's bad. "Tacking on" can be best achieved by
clearly defining our core values and our core purposes, and showing that the changes
affect the trappings without damaging the core. If tacking on is inherently bad, the
goals must reflect this, and must also set a limit on the newness; without any limit
on the newness, utterly ridiculous counter-proposals such as selling the building and
switching to house-churches will become viable - and more so than the current plans.

Specific proposals
==================

Semi-circular seating layout
----------------------------

Justification: Less formal

TODO: Expand me

More musicians
--------------

TODO: Who do we have?

Sound desk positioning
----------------------

TODO: List our options

Podium instead of stage
-----------------------

With or without removing the physical structure of the stage.

Major concerns
==============

"Barry says"
------------

So far, most of the goals have been justified only by "Barry says this" or "Barry
thinks this would be better". This church is not about one-man goals, so better
justifications MUST be found.

YAGNI
-----

Additional seating space is not a current necessity. It is a well-known tenet that
we should aim for what we actually need, not what we think we might need. Any plan
that gives us at least 100 seats is virtually indistinguishable from any other such
plan; the difference between capacity of 132 and capacity of 117 is completely not
significant *to the replant*. Once experimentation has been done based on the other
goals, considerations about capacity can be considered - maybe that'll be in six
months, maybe in six years. By the time that becomes important, we will have more
data from which to work.

In the extremely unlikely event that we *suddenly* have 150 people in the church,
we can explore temporary options, until such time as we see that it is sustained.
(Even funerals, which (as of 2016) are our best draw-card, don't often fully fill
our current seating plan. We can easily lay out a few chairs temporarily.)

Conclusion
==========

In order to move forward with the church replant, changes must be made. The changes
described in this document are believed to be Scriptural and practical, and useful.

Copyright
=========

This document has been placed in the public domain.

Commit message:

DAD comments added Meeting minutes supplied

README.md, after:

Abstract
========

Ashburton Presbyterian Church is proposing a change and a replant. This document
sets down the goals of the changes and how the proposal achieves them.

DAD comments added 5 Feb 2017

Church mission
==============

Before any proposal can be entertained, the church's own purpose must be defined.
Proposals which support this purpose are inherently better than those which do not.

Salvation of the unsaved
------------------------

It hardly needs to be said, but the goal of a church is people. As it's difficult
to reach out to people who have been offended by our form and structure, we must
aim to minimize such offense.

Education and sanctification
----------------------------

Church is not a "feel-good club" for people who are already perfect. It is a place
where the Word of God is expounded and taught, where truth is shared and explained,
and where flawed sinners learn more about the Perfect One. Any change that disrupts
this is bad and dangerous.

Stability and strength
----------------------

[Psalm 40:2](http://sikorsky.rosuav.com:8082/Psalm%2B40.html) is used as the church
motto - giving God's people a "firm place to stand". Our doctrine must be stable and
dependable.

DAD None of the above are in question so far.

Goals
=====

Reduced formality
-----------------

The church needs to welcome visitors and new members. Random persons walking into
the church should not be turned away by insignificant details of seating layout.

Bring speaker and listeners closer
----------------------------------

The "them and us" feeling is stronger when the distance is great. By reducing the
(perceived) distance, we help people to feel that they are a part of the service,
rather than passive recipients of someone else's lecture.

Increase seating capacity
-------------------------

The present arrangement seats a bit over a hundred people. If the church is blessed
with a significant increase in membership, we will need additional seating space.
Also, drastically _reducing_ seating capacity will strangle the church's growth.

DAD Reducing seating may be a temporary measure to reduce a sense of sparseness, as long as capacity can be restored as needed

Demonstrating change
--------------------

We are engaging in a church replant, and need to reinforce that this is a new
beginning. People who walk into the church for the first time must instantly know
that we have changed things.

DAD New people who don't know the previous layout will not be able t assess this. But they usually are aware of the differences in seating styles bewtween church eras. Thus differences between prevous centuries (pews with doors, highly rigid) vs last century (1950s orthoganal rows) vs more recent times (semi-circular in fabric chairs rather than pews) are readily perceived even by visitors

Justification
=============

Removing barriers to entry makes the church less offensive in ways that don't matter.
We should always strive to offend people with substance, not form. (Gal 5:11)

Known objections
================

Change for change's sake
------------------------

    "Dr Bumby says 'change' is constructive - that 'different' is good."
    "'Different' denotes neither bad nor good; it certainly denotes 'not the same'."

Merely changing things is not inherently good. Stability has benefits. Any change
must justify itself with more than marginal improvement, as it must overcome the
costs of _making_ the change.

There is a well-known saying that ["status quo wins a stalemate"]
(http://www.curiousefficiency.org/posts/2011/02/status-quo-wins-stalemate.html).
The explanation here is aimed primarily at language design, but the concept is
more general; change is disruptive and impactful, and almost always in a bad way.
Unless it can be demonstrated that "change for change's sake" is, in this case,
a good thing, the changes [MUST](https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2119.txt) be justified
by something stronger.

DAD Ready? Fire. Aim!

Vague goals
-----------

Some of the goals listed above are fuzzy and hard to pin down. For instance, making
the church more welcoming (or, conversely, the reduction of the sense of "them and
us") is hard to prove based on a seating plan alone. These will need to be tested in
a way which gives coherent data.

DAD yes, but so also are some of the statements in this document. When dealing with people and attitudes to appearances, some will inevitably be difficult to quantify in any strict sense

Falsifiability (testability)
----------------------------

Related to the above is the essentiality of being able to prove or disprove a test.
There is no point performing an experiment if it cannot give concrete results, and
that means knowing *in advance* what the test will be measured against. With the
non-trivial criteria, this means pinning down some measurable result which will be
taken as an indication of a hard-to-measure goal.

Lack of connection with church mission
--------------------------------------

Nothing in a seating plan has any direct impact on the church mission as listed
above, so the justifications must demonstrate indirect impact.

Core change vs trappings
------------------------

In the meeting on Jan 15th, Barry specifically stated:

    We are NOT just tacking onto what's here; we are making something completely new.

"Completely new" can be best achieved by throwing out everything we have. This means
throwing out what's good as well as what's bad. "Tacking on" can be best achieved by
clearly defining our core values and our core purposes, and showing that the changes
affect the trappings without damaging the core. If tacking on is inherently bad, the
goals must reflect this, and must also set a limit on the newness; without any limit
on the newness, utterly ridiculous counter-proposals such as selling the building and
switching to house-churches will become viable - and more so than the current plans.

DAD Barry's statement was heard and then the point was ignored by the meeting, whhich proceeded with an incremental rather than a radical all-new approach. 

Specific proposals
==================

Semi-circular seating layout
----------------------------

Justification: Less formal

TODO: Expand me

More musicians
--------------

TODO: Who do we have?

Sound desk positioning
----------------------

TODO: List our options

DAD Seen in some of the diagrams. Basically only two broad types: off-centre (usually v. poor based on experiences of other churches) centre rear (probably best); Rear position best for assessing sound balance but still requires checks at other points around the building

Podium instead of stage
-----------------------

With or without removing the physical structure of the stage.

DAD as per minutes of the meeting (separate document in this repo) minimal physical changes at this stage; only approved new blinds which would be useful regardless of the final outcome if this experiment, plus moving the projector on a temporary basis only

Major concerns
==============

"Barry says"
------------

So far, most of the goals have been justified only by "Barry says this" or "Barry
thinks this would be better". This church is not about one-man goals, so better
justifications MUST be found.

DAD the meeting actually declined to use Barry's model, and adopted Les Oliver's approach

YAGNI
-----

Additional seating space is not a current necessity. It is a well-known tenet that
we should aim for what we actually need, not what we think we might need. Any plan
that gives us at least 100 seats is virtually indistinguishable from any other such
plan; the difference between capacity of 132 and capacity of 117 is completely not
significant *to the replant*. Once experimentation has been done based on the other
goals, considerations about capacity can be considered - maybe that'll be in six
months, maybe in six years. By the time that becomes important, we will have more
data from which to work.

In the extremely unlikely event that we *suddenly* have 150 people in the church,
we can explore temporary options, until such time as we see that it is sustained.
(Even funerals, which (as of 2016) are our best draw-card, don't often fully fill
our current seating plan. We can easily lay out a few chairs temporarily.)

DAD Agreed by the meeting, which did not endorse the use of all the available pews, but only sufficient to make the experiment feasible and realistic. This included an obvious allowance for space at the back for control desk and children's area, plus a walking aisle, and provision for aisles to accommodate funeral and wedding services. All suggestions acknowledged the limitations of rigid pews, but considered the experiment worth a try.

Conclusion
==========

In order to move forward with the church replant, changes must be made. The changes
described in this document are believed to be Scriptural and practical, and useful.

Copyright
=========

This document has been placed in the public domain.
